NAME: Dennis Zang
EMAIL: dennisczang@gmail.com
ID: 704766877

Ths files included in this project are:
lab1b-client.c
lab1b-server.c
Makefile
README

lab1b-client.c:
This program runs separate from the server and polls for bytes to read from the keyboard and the server process.
From the keyboard, it reads the input bytes non-canonically, translating '\r' into '\n', and sends them to the server.
From the server process, it reads the bytes and translates '\n' to '\r\n' before displaying it on stdout.
The mandatory --port option indicates which port the client process should connect to.
The --log option creates a file with 'creat' and write (or overwrites) into the file the transactions between the client
and the server.
The --compress option compresses the bytes sent from the keyboard to the server and decompresses the bytes recieved from
the server using the zlib API.

lab1b-server.c:
Like project 1A, the server forks a child process to run the shell, and exchanges input/output through pipes.
The only changes between this program and project 1A is the implementation of socket communication, where the input
and output are sent, and the compression of bytes.
The mandatory --port option indicates which port the server would listen and send data to.
The --compress option indicates whether the server process should decompress input from and compress output to the socket
(again, using the zlib API).

Below are some of the references I used: (in addition to the references used in project 1B)
(various man pages for all the commands in the spec)
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/socket-programming-cc/
https://www.zlib.net/manual.html
https://www.zlib.net/zlib_how.html
https://www.zlib.net/zpipe.c

Makefile:
The makefile supports the default, client, server, clean, and dist options.
default: compile lab1b-client.c and lab1b-server.c into lab1b-client and lab1b-server, respectively
client: compiles only lab1b-client.c into lab1b-client
server: compiles only lab1b-server.c into lab1b-server
clean: remove lab1a and the tarball
dist: create the tarball with the required files